If you've ever run a lead genen campaign
on Google Ads, you know all the problems
that come with it. Not all leads are the
same quality. You've got a lot of spam,
a lot of junk. Even for legitimate
leads, there's people who have no real
interest in buying. And this is a
problem across B2B and B TOC
advertising. But if you're managing
accounts for a business or a brand,
whether you're an agency or an in-house
marketer, a consultant, uh you'll
probably discover that the sales teams
and the business owners, they don't have
the time, uh the resources, or even the
urgency to do any of this qualification
themselves. And they often end up uh
calling a lead once or twice, not
getting an answer, giving up, moving on
to the next one. When you're paying
dozens of dollars up to hundreds of
dollars for a lead, the worst thing you
can do is let it go. And then it comes
back to you the Google ads service
provider uh that you know lead quality
is not coming in it's not good enough.
So how do you kind of bridge that gap?
And so when I ran marketing and
optimizer uh I used event-based lead
scoring to get around that challenge.
You know the sales reps were too busy
closing deals that were already in the
pipeline that were already close to
closing to stay on top of the leads that
were coming through and see which ones
were pursuing next. Uh, I was able to
not just automate a large part of that,
I was also able to put higher quality
leads in front of the sales team, which
improved their close rates, which made
me look better as a marketer. You start
this ongoing cycle of feedback the first
time you upload a batch of online
conversion data to Google, like you're
continuously going to start telling
Google which leads it delivered were
good quality leads and which ones
weren't. And then we'll try to get you
more of those. So when you pair this
with targeting improvement, keyword
selection, uh ad group structure, all
that other stuff, good copywriting, good
landing pages, it really does cement you
as the consultant or the agency or the
marketer that knows how to get that good
final conversion, who knows how to bring
in leads that deliver business results.
So to walk you through how I do this,
I've set up basically a demo environment
in HubSpot. Uh most CRM and call logging
tools, call recording tools offer
similar functionality. So you should be
able to replicate this setup quite
easily. Um first thing here is I've got
some contacts. I've created four of
them. Uh normally these would get
populated as people click on your ads,
submit forms, have phone calls with your
sales team, whatever it might be. Um and
then there's also some workflows that
are running to automate some of the lead
stages and things like that. uh and then
the core of all of it which which is the
uh the lead scoring flow that will allow
you to pick out the right leads to send
back to Google. Right? So starting with
the CRM records uh this business is a
fictional one. Right? So it does
landscaping and it operates on the south
coast of England in the town of Turkey
and its surrounding areas. And um the
campaigns are set up geographically. So,
we have a Google Ads integration with
HubSpot uh that allows you to naturally
pass lead data back. So, we're we're
setting that up. Uh other CRM might
require you to set this up through
Zapier if that's the case. Uh there's a
really good video by another member of
Godier Ads, Patrick Sam, uh that will
teach you how to automate that process.
Uh or check the description. It's also
linked at the end of this video. Um and
if you're in the GTA community, you'll
even be able to pick up the template
resources for free. More on that at the
end. So, I've got four leads here of
differing quality and that's recorded in
the fit score which is calculated
through my lead scoring workflow. Um,
also monitoring lead status which ranges
from simply submitting a form all the
way to being a happy customer. Uh, and
then you've got all the vitals, right?
So, your contact details, contact
methods, um, how much they want to
spend, what they want to spend it on,
where they're from. Critical piece here
for offline conversions are the Google
Ads campaign name and the Google ads
click ID uh which is the G-clid the
hashed value that Google uses to
identify a conversion in your account
while maintaining its privacy and you
can pass this G-Cl back to Google Ads
within 90 days of conversion and tell it
that it was a good lead and it will be
able to ID the original user. Now for
this demo it's a custom property. If you
set up a direct integration with HubSpot
and Google Ads, there will be a
property, I believe, under the Google
Ads property group for G-lids that will
naturally pull that data in from Google
Ads. Next up are the workflows. Um, and
these are simply automations that you
can build in HubSpot or whatever CRM to
trigger an action when certain
conditions are met. So, the first one
I've got here is to update the lead
stage to work order signed when a deal
associated with that contact is created,
which indicates the paperwork has been
finalized. Right? And you can set up
automations to move people through deal
stages based on whatever information is
logged in your CRM. And then here's
another automation that fires off an
email to people who showed some interest
on the phone. not quite enough to move
to the next stage with a quote uh but
you know just uh showed some interest
and okay there is some potential there.
This isn't just somebody who um you know
filled out the form because they wanted
to spend uh 2003 300 on uh or dollars on
um some new plants. you know, they
actually wanted some landscaping
services or this isn't somebody who
lives outside of the area that we
service, right? So, you've had some
qualification and it's like, okay, I
would like to be able to do business
with this person, but the interest is
not strong enough on their side. So,
this email is not a sales push. It's
going to be some valuable information.
It's going to be an explanation of how
we work and how we operate, maybe some
of our USPS, a quote or two from
satisfied customers who got the same
type of work done. Um, again, you can
really set up an automation to do
anything as long as you log the data in
the CRM, as long as the information
changes as it normally does. Uh, with
more technical setups, um, you know,
I've I've set up live data to, uh, get
pulled in from other custom databases,
offline databases that continuously get
updated through an integration with
HubSpot. So you can really set up
anything as long as you set it up as
long as you can understand its impact on
the business and you can record it in
HubSpot. Uh you can use that to trigger
an automation. You can use it as um data
that is modified property values that
are modified as the outcome of the
automation. There's really no limit
other than what you're able to bring
into HubSpot and what ideas you can
bring to the business.
Hello, quick interruption. Sorry if
you're enjoying the video. I assume you
are cuz you're still here. Please hit
the like button. Do consider
subscribing. Thank you very much. Back
to the video. Okay, now on to the main
event, which is the lead scoring. And
this is the centerpiece of this entire
uh tactic, which is really based off
what is important to the business. It's
not really a lot to do with marketing
metrics or Google Ads performance. So,
you really do have to understand what
motivates your client, your employer, um
their business model, how to qualify
leads in a way that works for them where
they're happy with the end outcome and
not necessarily um the number of leads
that are coming through, not necessarily
the uh click-through rate or anything
like that. So over here for this
business the primary driver above all
else which which the business cannot
service if if this is not the case is
that the leads are located their homes
are located in a specific part of the
county of debit. Right? So I've got some
sample towns populated here. Uh and all
this data is coming in from the form on
our landing page. One thing to remember
here is that things like misspellings
can have an impact on uh the hygiene and
the accuracy of this data. Even if you
set everything up correctly, if you
allow people to type in stuff, typos,
misspellings, all of that stuff can kind
of not necessarily trigger the right
automation. So unless people are picking
entirely predefined options from your
list and not typing in anything of their
own, you're still going to need to
review the data periodically and make
sure that no leads accidentally get
qualified higher or lower than they
ought to be. Uh that there are no leads
getting uh put into workflows and
automation that shouldn't be there uh or
that there are no leads that are
supposed to be in those triggers and
automations and workflows that are not
being added to them. So along with
location, uh another thing we want to
look at is how much the prospect wants
to spend. So higher ticket jobs more
valuable and therefore get a higher
score bonus. And in this example,
they're sorted by tier of spend because
different services have different price
tags. People tend to combine two
different things. We have a whole
pattern in the business data of uh
upsells and crossells. We know what
people typically buy uh in addition to
service A or B or C, whatever it might
be. So based on that we know okay there
are these different tiers of spend where
people tend to spend this much money
together on these services right so
we've sorted them by price tag we've
sorted them by by price tiers um and
each of these gets a different value
obviously the more valuable uh
businesses are the ones that spend more
and so you can see that the points are
higher for those and then finally uh we
have the lead status and lead status is
really what impacts whether there is
real business intent. Um, so obviously
somebody submitting the form or not
answering a call back is is a poor sign.
It's not that they'll they'll never
spend, but you know, chances are that
they won't. It's all about the amount of
effort that you want to put into
pursuing them. So, right at this stage,
okay, you call a lead back, um, they
don't answer. You call them twice, they
don't answer. You want to move on to the
leads that do engage, right? So these
they they just don't get any points. Uh
and then in the next stage you've got
somebody who is um a little more uh
valuable, you know, where you had a good
conversation with them or uh you sent
them a quote. Both of these things are
positive signs, but they're still not
really enough to make them a valuable
business prospect. You know, signing a
work order is a good thing. It comes
with a legal obligation to see the
contract out. So more points over there.
Paying the advance is an extremely good
thing. It is cash flow which is what
this business is really after at the end
of the day. Uh Google ads just being a
means to that end. And then of course
somebody who's happy or unhappy with the
job is another level on top. It's more
to do with the service provided rather
than the quality of the lead. But it's
still really nice to see who's happy and
who's not. And you may not necessarily
use that when you're choosing which
leads to send back to Google. Uh, but
this is something that, you know, if
you're building this out for a client or
your employer, uh, it's it's going a
step above and beyond just just the
basic effort of qualifying leads for
Google Ads and thinking about like
what's valuable to the business um, and
how to identify people who are happy
with their service, right? The really
good thing about lead scoring systems
like this um is that the scoring is
incremental rather than cumulative which
means that as people progress through
lead stages or different tiers of spend
or whatever it is if they increase
decrease something then they get the new
score value for that property rather
than it being added on or subtracted
from the previous total. So it's not
like okay 10 points add 10 points then
20 points then 30 points every time they
move through the lead stages. It's just
okay. If they hit this stage, they get
10. If they hit this stage, then you add
another 10 because it's plus 20. And for
the plus 30, then it adds plus 10 on top
of the plus 20, right? So, it's it's
step by step. And you can also subtract
points for negative actions. You could
even build a whole scoring workflow to
start from zero and only penalize traits
and actions that are not valuable to
your business. So, again, a ton of
flexibility with automated lead scoring.
You can really set up um any kind of
workflow based on what's important to
your business. You can punish certain
actions. You can reward certain actions.
And of course, it's all fully internal.
You can even set up multiple workflows
for say like different types of
conversions, different end goals,
different locations, whatever uh
whatever is really relevant to the
business. And then finally, what you
want to do with all this information is
really just cherrypick your good leads
and upload those as offline conversions
into Google Ads. You can see here the
G-Clids are popular. These are just
madeup G-Clids. Um, but you'll use these
to tell the machine these are the people
who filled out my form and went on to
become of monetary value to my business.
And if you're using conversion values on
top of it, aka valuebased bidding, then
it's going to additionally give you
another layer to grade those leads based
on which ones are nice to have, which
ones are more valuable, which ones are
super valuable to business growth. Uh,
again, just remember that G-Clouds
expire in 90 days once they're created.
So that is your window to act on them.
If your client or your brand's sales
cycle is longer than that, you will need
to find an event that occurs within the
time frame which can safely be used as
that measure of lead quality to decide,
okay, we're going to send these ads to
Google and we're not going to. That's
basically a wrap on automated lead
scoring for Google Ads. If you found
this video helpful, please leave us a
like and consider subscribing as well.
There's a ton of misleading marketing
information and advice out there. And Ed
and I would hate for you to only ever
hear uh things like spend more money or
just opt into all of Google's
automations or trust me bro, broad match
is the best. And you know, yeah, broad
match is good, but it's not always right
for every account. Uh and there's a
world of non- Googlele ads optimizations
you can do to improve campaign
performance. And uh you know, we're
committed to making sure that we put
that advice in front of you. And if you
really want to simplify your Google Ads
process, definitely check out Ed's
gottier ads framework and all the bonus
content that comes with it. People use
it say that it pays for itself, that it
helps them not worry about wasting
money. And uh they also get access to
the GTA community which has answered
thousands of marketing hiring and PPC
related questions for consultants,
in-house marketers, agency owners, uh
business owners, people who are just
getting started, anybody who's
struggling to find answers by
themselves. And that's the main thing,
right? We work better together. We work
better as a community. So, hope you
enjoyed the video. Give ad some money.
Like and subscribe. And uh cheers.